[Docs] Add CSS customization guide (#716)
mckinsey/vizro: vizro-core/docs/pages/user-guides/customizing-css.md

> # Customizing CSS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Customizing Vizro dashboard CSS
```

> Vizro is quite opinionated when it comes to visual formatting, but it allows for some customization if you want to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vizro is opinionated about visual formatting, but it allows for some customization if you want to
```

deviate from the default settings. While certain elements, such as the layout of the navigation and components,
are fixed, you can customize background colors, fonts, and other styles via CSS overrides.

To do so, you need to:

1. Add a CSS file to your `assets` folder, refer to our user guide on [adding static assets](assets.md#how-to-add-static-assets).

> 2. Identify the right CSS selector for the component you want to style.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Identify the correct CSS selector for the component you want to style.
```

3. Add the desired changed properties to your CSS file.

> ## Intro to CSS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Introduction to CSS customization
```

Reviewer: Best to have this clearly spelt out as it'll help SEO if anyone searches "customize CSS Vizro"

> Customizations are typically made using CSS. For a quick 5-minute introduction to CSS, we recommend reading

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Customizations to the visual formatting of a Vizro dashboard is typically done using CSS. For a short introduction to CSS, we recommend reading
```

> this article: [Get Started with CSS in 5 Minutes.](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/get-started-with-css-in-5-minutes-e0804813fc3e/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this article: [Get Started with CSS in 5 Minutes](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/get-started-with-css-in-5-minutes-e0804813fc3e/).
```

For a more comprehensive tutorial, refer to the [W3Schools CSS tutorial](https://www.w3schools.com/css/default.asp).
The entire tutorial is beneficial, but the section on [CSS selectors](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_selectors.asp)
will be particularly useful.

In Vizro, the CSS file is read in as an external stylesheet. The most common way of applying any styling to Vizro is therefore
through the use of CSS selectors:

- **Element Selector**: Applies the style to all elements inside the Vizro app.

    ```
    h1 {
        font-size: 20px;
    }

    p {
        color: green;
    }
    ```

- **Class selector:** Applies the style to all elements with the specified class.

    ```
    .card {
        background: lightblue;
    }
    ```

- **ID selector:** Applies the style to the element with the specified ID.

    ```
    #my-card {
        background: lightblue;
    }
    ```

> ## Identify the right CSS selector

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Identify the correct CSS selector
```

Use Chrome DevTools or a similar tool (Web Inspector, Web Developer Tools, etc.) to inspect the HTML document in your browser.

> 1. **Open DevTools:** In Google Chrome, right-click on the app and select "Inspect" from the context menu. This will open the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Open DevTools:** In Google Chrome, right-click on the app and select "Inspect" from the context menu. This opens the
```

Author: Ahh, that's a good advice. Let me change it throughout all the docs I see!

HTML document of your Vizro app.

    ![Inspect panel](../../assets/user_guides/customizing_css/inspect-panel.png)

2. **Select an Element:** Suppose you want to change the background color of your cards. Click the
"Select an element in the page to inspect it" icon in the top left corner of the inspect panel.

    ![Inspect icon](../../assets/user_guides/customizing_css/inspect-icon.png)

3. **Find the HTML Block:** Hover over the component you want to style. The corresponding HTML block will be
highlighted in the document.

    ![Highlighted element](../../assets/user_guides/customizing_css/highlighted-element.png)

    Notice that the selected HTML block corresponds to the container of the card and has a CSS class, here it is `card`.

4. **Apply CSS:** Use this CSS class to style the card component. In your CSS file, you can write:

    ```
    .card {
        background-color: blue;
    }
    ```

>     This will change the background color for any HTML element with the `card` class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This changes the background color for any HTML element with the `card` class.
```

**Tip:** You can also test your CSS live by editing the CSS attributes in the "Elements" panel.
For example, temporarily add `background: blue; note that this change will be lost upon reloading the page.

![Temporary changes](../../assets/user_guides/customizing_css/temporary-changes.png)

## CSS overwrites

### Overwrite CSS globally

> To overwrite any global CSS properties of existing components, target the right CSS property and place your CSS files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To overwrite any global CSS properties of existing components, target the correct CSS property and place your CSS files
```

> in the `assets` folder. This will overwrite any existing defaults for that CSS property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the `assets` folder. This overwrites any existing defaults for that CSS property.
```

            components=[vm.Card(text="""# Placeholder""")]
        )

        dashboard = vm.Dashboard(pages=[page_one, page_two])
        Vizro().build(dashboard).run()
        ```

        <img src=https://py.cafe/logo.png alt="py.cafe logo" width="30"><b><a target="_blank" href="https://py.cafe/vizro-official/vizro-multi-page-example">Run and edit this code in Py.Cafe</a></b>

    === "app.yaml"
        ```yaml
        # Still requires a .py to add data to the data manager and parse YAML configuration
        # See yaml_version example
        pages:
        - components:
            - text: |
                # Placeholder
              type: card
          title: Page with hidden title
          id: page-with-hidden-title
        - components:
            - text: |
                # Placeholder
              type: card
          title: Page with shown title
        ```
    === "Result"
         [![PageTitle]][PageTitle]

    [PageTitle]: ../../assets/user_guides/assets/css_page_title.png

### Overwrite CSS for selected components
To adjust CSS properties for specific components, like altering the appearance of a selected [`Card`][vizro.models.Card] rather than all `Card`s,

> you need to use a CSS selector that targets the right CSS property. If you're unfamiliar with CSS selectors,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you need to use a CSS selector that targets the right CSS property. If you need guidance,
```

> you can refer to this [tutorial](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_selectors/Selector_structure) for guidance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this [tutorial about CSS selectors](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_selectors/Selector_structure) for guidance.
```

> Let's say we want to change the background and font-color of a specific `Card`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's say we want to change the `background` and `font-color` of a specific `Card`.
```

Reviewer: Or if you don't want to use code font, it'll be background and font color with no hyphen.

### Change the background color of a card
See the example above on [customizing CSS properties in selective components](#overwrite-css-for-selected-components).

### Change the font
The default fonts for a Vizro app are `Inter, sans-serif, Arial, serif`.

If you need to change the global font, perhaps to adhere to branding guidelines, follow these steps:

1. Download the desired font from a font provider such as [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/).
2. Place the font file (`.ttf`, `woff2`, etc.) into your `assets` folder. Here’s an example of what the assets folder might look like:

    ![Font Change](../../assets/user_guides/customizing_css/font-change.png)
3. Add the font to your CSS file using the `@font-face` rule and apply the font globally to your Vizro app, making sure
to specify fallback fonts. Add the following to your `custom.css` file:

    ```css
    @font-face {
      font-family: PlayfairDisplay;
      src: url("PlayfairDisplay-VariableFont_wght.ttf") format("truetype");
    }

    * {
      font-family: PlayfairDisplay, Inter, sans-serif, Arial, serif;
    }
    ```

> 

Author: I wanted to add a section here that one has to separately replace the font inside the charts as well, but it didn't seem to work as I expected it (see scratch dev)
